{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16460\viewh10140\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Outline for a research essay\
\
1. Introduction\
	- Statement of the puzzle or question\
	- Statement of the thesis\
	- Roadmap of the subsequent sections (what will each of the following sections do, to test/demonstrate the thesis)\
2. Literature Review\
	- Discuss previous academic research on your question\
	- Point is to illustrate the most advanced current answer to your question\
	- And highlight what is missing/problematic in this previous research\
	- Setting the stage for what is unique and valuable about your argument and the study you are conducting\
3. Theory\
	- Lay out in detail your argument, especially the assumptions and the reasoning for why you think the theory is true\
	- For empirical research, this can be described as a "model"--a very simplified hypothetical toy version of the world\
		- For example:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2162\fi-2163\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 			"In this section, I develop a simple model of voting. Consider a model in which voters are only concerned about the economy. This model assumes voters do not evaluate any other issue. I also assume all potential voters are equally likely to turnout. In this model, politicians know that voters only care about the economy. In this model, politicians will focus on improving the economy and voters will re-elect incumbent politicians when the economy is improving, and they will not vote for incumbents when the economy is worsening. Clearly, in the real world voters think about many things, but this simplified model may help to explain why voters vote they way they do."\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
4. Research Design\
	- Lay out in detail your creative plan for gathering and investigating data and why/how this will give you a good test of your theory.\
	 	- Large-N, Small-N, or experiment? Explain why.\
	- If Large-N, describe the data sources, the variables you will analyse, and how you will analyse them to test your theory.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li861\fi-862\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	- If Small-N, describe the cases you are selecting, the rationale for selecting them (i.e. a "similar-systems" design?), what you will look at in each case, and how you will look at each case (historical material? interviews?)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	- For an experiment, lay out all details of how you setup the experiment, how it was conducted, and the rationale for your decisions.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li834\fi-835\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	- Explain in advance what you will have to observe to consider your theory supported, and what would you have to find to consider your theory unsupported.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
5. Analysis, findings, and discussion\
	- Present the analysis.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1597\fi-1598\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 		- For large-N or experiment, it may be some combination of graphs, statistics, statistical models, and tables with written explanations of the results.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1548\fi-1549\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 		- For small-N, it will be written narratives or summaries of data, grouped by case. Possibly some graphs or tables in small-N designs also. Then a comparative discussion of similarities and differences.	\
\pard\tx720\tx740\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li764\fi-765\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	- Include a detailed and robust discussion of how well your findings support your theory. It's OK if they don't. The key is to be honest and rigorous. be reflective about how generalisable your findings may or may not be.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1548\fi-1549\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
6. Conclusion\
	- Re-state the puzzle or question \
	- Re-state the thesis\
	- Summarise the main gist of your findings, whether they support you hypothesis or not\
	- Discuss limitations and how future researchers could improve or extend your study\
	- Discuss implications of your study for other scholars interested in your topic (what should we take away from your study?)\
	- Discuss implications (if there are any; it's not required) for policymakers or activists whose real-world work could learn from your study}